 


## Software Interview Questions (Junior, Medior, Senior)
-  The repository is new and is constantly being updated. Don't forget to follow it (Star, Watch).
-  If you would like to add the questions you encountered in your interviews, you can send a pull request. I'll merge it.


## What is a virtual class

- The virtual structure is a concept in object-oriented programming (OOP) where the member functions of a class can be redefined by derived classes. This allows derived classes to control the behavior of the member functions.

## What is a partial class?

- Partial classes are a feature in the C# programming language. They are used to split a class into multiple parts and define them in different files. Partial classes allow the distribution of the code belonging to the same class across different files or separate sections.
- This feature enables better organization of classes in large-scale projects and reduces conflicts when multiple developers work on the same class. For example, you can separate the implementation logic, interface definitions, or database operations of a class into specific sections in different files.
- The use of partial classes reduces the complexity of class code, making it easier to maintain and extend. Additionally, you can manually extend and modify the code generated by automated code-generating tools or design tools.
- In summary, partial classes are a C# feature used to organize the code of a class in different files or sections and facilitate class development in large projects.


## Explanation of Static States and Usage:

- Static is a keyword used in object-oriented programming (OOP) and can be used when defining class members or variables. It indicates that the variable or function is not dependent on an instance of the class and can be accessed using the class name.

## What is the nopCommerce project? (If the interviewing company is in the e-commerce industry...)

- nopCommerce is an open-source e-commerce platform developed using .NET technologies. This project offers features such as multi-language and multi-currency support, flexible product management, and payment integration.

## What is Elasticsearch?

- Elasticsearch is an open-source search and analytics engine used for processing and searching large volumes of data. It differs from a relational database and stores data as JSON documents.

## What is Redis?

- Redis is an open-source key-value store system and is commonly used in high-performance and scalable applications. Redis stores data in memory, allowing for fast accessibility.

## Explain Relational and NoSQL Databases?

- Relational databases store data in related tables, and they are structured using the SQL language. NoSQL databases, on the other hand, have a more flexible structure and are often used in high-performance applications.

## What are Lazy Loading, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, and Inheritance?

- These concepts are fundamental principles of OOP (Object-Oriented Programming) and are frequently used in software development. Lazy loading loads data when needed, preventing unnecessary resource consumption. Encapsulation ensures the protection of data and functions within a class and helps restrict interactions from outside the class. Polymorphism allows an object to behave in different ways. Inheritance enables a class to be derived from another class, inheriting its member functions and variables.

## Can you explain the SOLID principles?

- SOLID is a set of principles commonly used in the software development world. SOLID consists of five principles: Single Responsibility, Open-Closed, Liskov Substitution, Interface Segregation, and Dependency Inversion. These principles help software developers increase the flexibility of software and create a more maintainable codebase.
- The SOLID principles are a set of rules aimed at creating high-quality, maintainable, and flexible code in the software development process. SOLID is an acronym that represents five fundamental principles proposed by Robert C. Martin
- Single Responsibility Principle: Every class or module should have a single responsibility and should fulfill that responsibility effectively.
- Open/Closed Principle: A software entity (class, function, module) should be closed for modifications but open for extension. In other words, it should be possible to add new functionality without modifying the existing code.
- Liskov Substitution Principle: Objects of a superclass should be replaceable with objects of its subclasses. Subclasses should preserve the behaviors defined by the superclass and can extend them without modifying the existing code.
- Interface Segregation Principle: Clients should not be forced to depend on interfaces that they do not use. Instead, smaller and more specialized interfaces should be preferred. A class should only implement interfaces that contain the methods it actually needs.
- Dependency Inversion Principle: High-level modules should not depend on low-level modules. Both should depend on abstractions. In other words, the dependency should be on interfaces or abstract classes rather than concrete implementations.
- These principles help make software easier to maintain, test, and extend. They also enhance code reusability and reduce dependencies.

## What is the difference between a Procedure and a Function, and when do we use them?

- Procedures and functions are structural programming tools used to create reusable code blocks in programs. The main difference between the two is whether they have a return value or not. Procedures are code blocks used to perform a specific task. They have no return value or the value is ignored. They are typically used for tasks such as processing data, printing output to the screen, or performing other operations.

- Functions, on the other hand, are code blocks with a return value. Functions perform a specific computation and return the result to the caller. Functions are commonly used for calculating, processing, and returning a value. Which one you prefer depends on the nature of the task and your needs. If a return value is unnecessary or insignificant for the task at hand, you can use a procedure.
- For example, you can use a procedure to print a text to the screen or sort data. However, if you need to perform a calculation or return a value, functions are more appropriate. For example, you can use a function to calculate the sum of two numbers or find the largest number in a list. In summary, procedures are generally used to perform tasks, while functions are preferred for computations and returning results. The choice depends on the nature of the task and your needs.

## What is Dependency Injection?

- Dependency Injection (DI) is a commonly used design pattern in software development. This pattern allows an object to receive its dependencies from an external source rather than creating them directly inside the class. It enables classes to become more independent and easier to test.
- Dependency Injection, as a software design pattern, allows dependencies to be injected into a component from an external source. Instead of a component creating and managing its dependencies, these dependencies are provided by an external resource.
- o illustrate with an example, let's say we want to create a Car object. A Car has dependencies like an engine, tires, steering, and so on. In a traditional approach, when creating a Car object, each of these dependencies would be created individually or another component would be called to create them.
- However, this approach can lead to code complexity and tight coupling. In this case, using Dependency Injection to create the Car object would be more appropriate.
- By using Dependency Injection, when we want to create the Car component, the dependencies of Car are taken from an external source (such as an IoC Container) and injected into the Car component. This way, the Car component is provided with its dependencies from an external source, rather than managing them itself.
- In summary, Dependency Injection allows code to be more modular and flexible. This pattern enables software components to be decoupled from each other and facilitates easier testing.

## for Example;

```
public class car {
    private Engine engine;
    private Wheels wheel;
    private Battery batteries;
    
    public Araba(Engine engine, Wheels wheels, Battery batteries) {
        this.engine = engine;
        this.wheels = wheels;
        this.batteries = batteries;
    }
     // Other methods of the car...
}

```

## What are the similarities and differences between Abstract and Interface?

- Abstract classes and interfaces are commonly used concepts in object-oriented programming (OOP). Abstract classes indicate that a class is an abstract base class and can contain abstract methods or variables. Interfaces, on the other hand, define specific methods that a class must implement and are used to reduce dependencies between classes.

## What is Docker in brief?

- Docker is a platform that enables fast deployment, management, and running of software applications. It creates virtual environments that contain the dependencies and configurations of the application.

## What is RabbitMQ?

- RabbitMQ is an open-source messaging tool that facilitates messaging between applications. It supports various protocols and can be used with multiple programming languages.

## What are the differences between Microservices and Monolithic systems?

- The main difference between microservices and monolithic systems lies in the architecture. Microservice architecture involves separating different functions of an application into separate services. This approach makes the application more flexible, scalable, and facilitates easier debugging and maintenance. Monolithic architecture, on the other hand, involves building the entire application as a single structure. This approach simplifies application development but can lead to scalability issues in large applications. The microservice approach allows managing and scaling each function of the application separately.

## What are AddScope, AddSingleton, and AddTransient in brief?

- AddScope: This method, when registering a service in the dependency injection container, ensures that the service returns the same instance throughout a scope whenever it is requested. Sharing the same instance throughout a scope allows multiple components within, for example, an HTTP request to access the same service object. This is typically used when multiple components within a request need to access the same data or state.
- AddSingleton: This method, when registering a service in the dependency injection container, ensures that the service is created and shared only once during the application lifetime. It returns the same instance whenever it is requested. This is useful when you want to use a single instance throughout the application, such as sharing a configuration setting or a database connection.
- AddTransient: This method, when registering a service in the dependency injection container, creates a new instance for each request and returns a different instance for each request. In other words, a new instance is created every time it is requested, and that instance is only used for that specific request. This is useful when you need a fresh instance for each request instead of storing shared state or data in memory, such as storing user sessions or transaction state.
- These three methods represent different behaviors for how dependencies are registered and which instances are returned. It is important to choose the right method based on the requirements of your application.

## What is the difference between Int32 and Int64?

- Int32 and Int64 represent integer data types. The difference between them arises from the size of the integer values they can represent.
- Int32 represents a 32-bit (4-byte) integer. This data type can hold integer values ranging from -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647. The same amount of space is allocated for negative and positive values.
-Int64, on the other hand, represents a 64-bit (8-byte) integer. This data type can hold integer values ranging from -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807. The same amount of space is allocated for negative and positive values.
- Therefore, Int32 has a smaller value range and uses less memory, while Int64 has a larger value range and uses more memory. Your choice will depend on the range of values you want to represent.

## What is the difference between DataRow and DataReader?
- DataRow and DataReader are different classes in the ADO.NET library of the .NET Framework, and they serve different purposes related to database operations.
- DataRow represents a single data record in a DataTable object. DataTable is a class used to store data in a tabular structure. DataRow represents each data record within the DataTable. A DataRow object stores the values of each column in the table.
- DataReader, on the other hand, is used to read data in database operations. When a database query is executed, the DataReader represents the data stream from the query result and reads the data row by row. DataReader operates by returning data from the query, occupying less memory and providing faster and more efficient access. It reads data in a forward-only manner, meaning it accesses data by moving forward. DataReader continues reading data as long as the database connection is open.
- In summary, DataRow is used to store and manipulate data in a tabular structure, while DataReader is used to read and process data from a database.

## What is the difference between Dictionary and List, and which one performs faster?

- In C#, Dictionary and List are different data structures used for different purposes. The main difference between them lies in how they store data and the access times.
- Storage Structure:
- List: List stores elements in a sequential order. Each element can be accessed with an index number, and the elements are maintained in the order they were added.
- Dictionary: Dictionary stores a collection of key-value pairs. Each key must be unique, and there is a value associated with each key. Keys are used for quick access to elements.
- Access Time:
- List: List accesses elements based on index numbers. Therefore, knowing the index number is required to access an element. The access time for elements is considered O(1).
- Dictionary: Dictionary accesses elements via keys. A hashing function is used to find the value associated with a key, enabling quick access to elements. The access time for elements is also considered O(1).
-As a result, there is no difference in terms of access speed between Dictionary and List; both have O(1) access time for elements. However, the methods used to access elements differ. Lists access elements based on index numbers, while Dictionaries access elements via keys. Therefore, the choice of data structure depends on your functional requirements and how you want to organize your data.

## What is a sealed class?

- In C#, a "sealed" class is a feature used to prevent inheritance. Sealed classes prevent the creation of derived classes and prohibit further derivation from those classes. If you mark a class as sealed, you do not allow another class to inherit from it.
- Sealed classes are typically used for classes that are fully implemented and do not require extension or modification. It can be useful in design decisions where you want to maintain the behavior or structure of a class without changing it and ensuring its integrity.
- Marking a class as sealed can help prevent your code from being interrupted at a certain point. Sealed classes can also provide performance improvements because the C# compiler knows that sealed classes can be optimized more efficiently.
- In conclusion, sealed classes in C# are classes that prevent inheritance. This feature can be used to maintain the robustness of your code and ensure a specific design.

## What is a record class?

- The "record" class, introduced with C# 9.0, is a class type used to represent data structures that are typically immutable and carry only data. "Record" classes are used to define classes known as value objects, which perform operations such as equality and matching based on their properties.
- Record" classes automatically generate all the necessary code to store data. This means that you can simply specify properties without writing separate code like getters and setters. Additionally, "record" classes inherently support what is known as "value equality." If two "record" objects have the same values, they are considered equal.
- Here's an example of a simple "record" class:

```
public record Person
{
    public string FirstName { get; init; }
    public string LastName { get; init; }
    public int Age { get; init; }
}
```
- In this example, the "Person" class is a record class that represents a person with a name and age. The record class automatically generates a constructor, property getters, equality members (Equals, GetHashCode), and a ToString method based on the properties defined in the class.
- "Record" classes facilitate operations like pattern matching based on properties and allow you to quickly copy and modify data. Additionally, "record" classes can contribute to more readable and maintainable code when used in conjunction with other classes.
- For these reasons, C# "record" classes are often preferred for defining simple data structure classes used for carrying, matching, and comparing data.

### What is the CQRS Design Pattern?

- CQRS, which stands for "Command Query Responsibility Segregation," is a design pattern that suggests separating commands and queries in an application or system.

- In a traditional architecture, commands and queries often use the same data model and access data using the same interfaces. However, in the CQRS pattern, commands and queries are treated separately and employ different models and mechanisms.

- In the CQRS pattern, commands are used to make changes to the data. These typically represent operations such as data insertion, update, or deletion. Commands may return feedback or results through notifications or asynchronous events.

- Queries, on the other hand, are used to access and read data. Queries are commonly used for operations such as querying, filtering, and displaying data. Queries can employ a separate data model optimized for performance and scalability.

- The CQRS pattern can be useful in scenarios where an application requires complex operations and data access. Particularly in large and complex systems, where reading and writing operations have different requirements, the CQRS pattern can be employed. It can enhance system performance, improve scalability, and make the codebase more modular.

- However, implementing the CQRS pattern can introduce complexity to the application development process and require a better understanding of requirements. Therefore, it should be carefully evaluated and applied correctly to the specific scenarios where it is deemed appropriate.

### What is the DDD Design Pattern?

- DDD (Domain-Driven Design) is a design approach and set of principles in software development. The main objective of DDD is to enable the development of understandable, sustainable, and flexible software that involves complex business logic and interactions.

- The use of DDD focuses on the core domain concepts in a software project and aims to reflect these concepts accurately in the software model. The domain represents the critical business rules that encompass the main activities and processes of an organization. DDD provides a methodology for understanding, modeling, and implementing these business rules and processes.

- The benefits provided by DDD include:

- Deep business understanding: DDD encourages the creation of a shared language among project stakeholders. This fosters the development of a deep understanding of the real-world processes and requirements of the business. As a result, the software model can accurately reflect the actual needs of the business.

- Flexibility and adaptability: DDD enables software to be evolutionary. Changes in the business logic can be easily accommodated by making corresponding changes in the software model. The clear boundaries and well-defined connections between DDD components minimize the impact of changes on other components.

- Improved modularity: DDD defines the business domain and the responsibilities of components in a clear manner. This allows the software to have a modular structure. Modularity facilitates the independent development, testing, and maintenance of components.

- Testability: DDD encourages the explicit expression of business rules in the domain. This enables thorough testing of the business rules. DDD supports techniques such as mocking and stubbing for testability.

- Team collaboration: By providing a shared language and a clear business domain model, DDD promotes better collaboration among teams. Understanding the business processes and sharing the software model encourages effective communication between business analysts, developers, and other stakeholders.

- DDD provides a set of principles, design patterns, and techniques to manage complex business logic. This approach is a valuable tool for the successful development and maintenance of software projects.
 

### Outbox Design Pattern nedir, ne için kullanılır?

- Coming soon...

### What is an Aggregate Root?


- An Aggregate Root is a concept within a software system that manages the hierarchical relationships between objects. This concept is part of a software design approach called Domain-Driven Design (DDD).

- An Aggregate is a grouping of closely related objects, and the Aggregate Root is the main or root object within that grouping. An Aggregate Root is an object within an Aggregate that can interact with and manage other objects. Other objects can only be accessed through the Aggregate Root, ensuring the consistency of the Aggregate.

- The Aggregate Root has several important functions:

- Ensuring consistency: The Aggregate Root maintains the state of other objects within it, preserving the consistency of the Aggregate. It controls the relationships between the components of the Aggregate and ensures its integrity.

- Defining transaction boundaries: The Aggregate Root defines the boundaries of operations within the Aggregate. Other objects can only be accessed through the Aggregate Root, preventing direct modification or interaction with objects outside of the Aggregate. This helps maintain the integrity of the Aggregate and reduces the risk of inconsistencies in the system.

- Establishing relationships between objects: The Aggregate Root provides a structure where other objects within it are interconnected. It manages the connections between objects and ensures their consistency.

- The Aggregate Root is used to reduce complexity in a software system and facilitate the organization and management of objects within the system. It is a fundamental principle of DDD, and correctly defining and using Aggregates is important in software design.

- Example;
- Let's assume we have two classes: Customer and Order. There is an Aggregate Root relationship between these two classes.

```
public class Customer
{
    public int Id { get; set; }
    public string Name { get; set; }
    // Other properties

    // Customer class contains a collection of Order objects
    public ICollection<Order> Orders { get; set; }

    // Aggregate Root operations
    public void PlaceOrder(Order order)
    {
        // Check if the order is valid
        // Other operations

        Orders.Add(order);
    }

    public void CancelOrder(Order order)
    {
        // Cancel order operations
        // Other operations

        Orders.Remove(order);
    }
}

public class Order
{
    public int Id { get; set; }
    public DateTime OrderDate { get; set; }
    // Other properties
}

```

- In the example above, the Customer class assumes the role of the Aggregate Root. The Orders collection provides access to the Order objects associated with the Customer. The Customer class ensures the consistency of the Aggregate Root by performing operations such as PlaceOrder and CancelOrder.

- In this example, the Customer class, as the Aggregate Root, manages the Order objects through the Orders collection. Order objects are added or removed from the Orders collection within the Customer class. This establishes the Aggregate Root relationship and maintains consistency.


### What are the differences between Value Objects and Reference Objects? Explain.

- Coming soon...

### What are the concepts of Entity in software development, summarize briefly?

- Coming soon...

### What do you know about the Event Sourcing pattern in software development? Can you explain what it is?

- Coming soon...

### What is RabbitMQ Exchange? What are the types of exchanges?

- Coming soon...

### What is Fair Dispatch in software development? How is it used?

- Coming soon...

### What is the Builder Design Pattern and what is its purpose?

- Coming soon...

### What is the Specification Design Pattern and what is its purpose?

- Coming soon...

### What is the Factory Design Pattern and what is its purpose?

- HComing soon...

### What is the Saga Distributed Transactions Pattern and what is its purpose?

- Coming soon...

### What is ConcurrentBag used for?

- Coming soon...

### What is the Lock mechanism and have you ever used it? What did you use it for?

- Coming soon...

### What do you know about Thread-Safe collections such as ConcurrentQueue, ConcurrentDictionary, ConcurrentBag, ConcurrentStack, and BlockingCollection?

- Coming soon...

###  What is asynchronous programming and what problems does it solve

- Coming soon...

### What is ORM? Which ORM technologies are commonly used in .NET/.NET Core platforms?

- Coming soon...

### What is Hangfire? What is it used for?

- Coming soon...

### What is CI/CD?

- Coming soon...

### Which test frameworks have you previously used in .Net/.Net Core platforms?

- Coming soon...
